---
author: saurabh
comments: true
date: 2016-02-26 16:08:39+00:00
layout: post
link: https://blog.cryf.in/index.php/2016/02/26/dota-2-vs-lol-2/
slug: dota-2-vs-lol-2
title: Dota 2 vs LoL 2
wordpress_id: 269
categories:
- Reviews
---

After playing League for a while, my impression on the game has changed drastically although, certain things I had said in my [first post](http://blog.cryf.in/2016/01/14/dota-2-vs-lol/) are pretty much the same. I have mostly been playing with Master Yi. His strengths are attack speed and attack damage. It's best to build him with those two aspects in mind. As for his defence, it's quite non-existent. He will not survive a gank, he can escape using his ulti at best. With Master, you will either lose the game badly or win it like it is the best game you've played in your life. Depends on your team and the champions they pick.

Enough of that. LoL has a 1-Dimensional gameplay compared to Dota 2, I'll be honest with you here. There are two major things I found lacking in LoL, but which are very much in abundance in Dota 2. The first is the champions themselves. Their abilities are primarily attack based, if not occasionally causing stuns or slowing movement. It's all about how much damage you can inflict versus how much you can concede. Unlike Dota 2 where different heros are known for some special ability that they have. In LoL nobody cares! Because you don't really have to care. Right-click to win. This very flaw of champions not having a "character" of their own is the main reason for the 1-Dimensionality of this game.

The second aspect is complementary to the first, in the sense that even the items do not have any special "characteristics". All they give you is extra attack damage, or magical damage, critical strike, life steal, yada yada yada... Quite contrary to Dota 2 items. Almost half (or even more) of Dota 2 items have some active ability and a subsequent cooldown. It adds a whole new dimension to the game! It's not just that, even the abilities that the items have are unique amongst themselves, like the Bloodstone with which you can commit suicide and hence not feed the opponent with experience and gold. As a result, Dota 2 is much harder than LoL on many levels, and is also way more serious. If you have watched tourneys you'd know. Once I saw LoL players singing songs before the start of the game and some even had a victory dance which they performed after they had won! Dota 2? Nothing of that sort. Can't blame them though, look at those freaking huge prize pools ESPORTS puts up. Better commentators and overall production for Dota 2 although LoL is the game having more players per month. I am sure that they see a lot of potential in Dota 2. It feels great watching Dota 2 matches though. I will say that it depends more on the skill of the player than on the hero that he/she selects. However, LoL isn't like that. From their pool of 100+ champions, very few even get played with in tourneys and nearly the same ones get banned all the time. I would say that's a turn off because the team that has the strongest picks will win. And that's lame, especially after you've played Dota 2. I just play LoL because it's easier, and people are cool.
