---
author: saurabh
comments: true
date: 2017-06-02 20:53:27+00:00
layout: post
link: https://blog.cryf.in/index.php/2017/06/02/what-went-wrong-with-our-education-system/
slug: what-went-wrong-with-our-education-system
title: What went wrong with our education system
wordpress_id: 356
categories:
- Dailies
---

How bad can education be? It shouldn't be bad, or it's not even supposed to be! But here we are... Quite heartbroken, and restricted because there is no other option out there but educate ourselves in the tiring, coercing manner they teach us. Mugging stuff up on the last day of the exam, not only because it doesn't make any sense to you but also because the exam is the only time we are going to require it. Mug and vomit. That's our routine 4 times each semester, for every subject and that's repeated for 8 semesters in total. What a dumb shit thing we have had to go through. I've just cleared engineering, and what can I say, the most pathetic experience of my life was in these 4 years. What the hell did I learn in these 4 years anyway? Well, one thing I did learn, and that was how flawed our education system really is. It's not flawed in a certain number of places or anything like that. It is a 100% wrong! I am emotionally vested in myself, and the education that I get, and the training that I get which I can use once I start my real job. But honestly, after receiving the kind of dull, lacking creativity, lacking enthusiasm kind of education I (or we all) have had to endure, I can say one thing: a serious change is required in our educational system. Also, our lecturers need to be better equipped with the right knowledge to guide us, pave the way for us to race across the sea of knowledge so we could grasp all we can. All they did was give silly excuses like "Students aren't interested", "Need to get approval from Principal", etc. BULLSHIT! I say. If you really want to get something done, you would go out of your way to get it done, come what may. As a student, I don't have time to entertain my professor's excuses about lack of interest. Great teachers can gather a crowd of students out of their own interest. Our teachers forget that not only do they work for us, but also that they need to work for the future of our world and our country. Without passion, teaching is a very useless profession and my request to all teachers who lack it is to go find a different profession rather than expose to the students how boring the subject is. Good people, engineers or any other grad for that matter can be made if the people at the top most level are good. In the case of education systems, the Principal, and of course the teachers. We need teachers who can bring out the creativity in them and show us the joys of the subject. Students will then realize the possibilities that can come from learning the subject. For some, it will act as a way to retain information, for they can remember the creative act better than say, reading a textbook for instance.

As a kid, I was taught that all of us are special. Yes, each and every one of us, whether adult or child. We were born with a purpose in our lives. God simply does not roll dice! As humans, we are the chosen ones. But to learn, and experience the fact, you need a kind of education which nourishes your senses to a world with endless possibilities, where you can become whatever you desire, pursue your interests to the fullest and to give back to the society as much as you can. Someone needs to instill or invoke the untapped fire of creativity in us. Creativity. It's really such a magical thing. Gives me immense joy creating things, whether the world knows about them is another thing altogether but I enjoy creating things. I believe my early days in school helped me out immensely. I realize this now, after looking at India through the scope of my college. From an early age onwards, I have been encouraged to open my eyes and fling my arms to the world. There's everything out there. So much happiness. Something that I deeply feel that I need to share with the rest of the world.
